The year was 608 BCE, the Prophet Jeremiah had already served nearly 40 years faithfully.
And now he was confined in the courtyard of the guard in Jerusalem.
Jerusalem's walls were being battered by the Babylonians.
Unless then a year the entire city would be completely destroyed.
But Jeremiah had to weather this storm.
There was no way out.
There was no place for him to go.
He was under lockdown.
Will have you ever felt like Jeremiah as if the world was caving in on you?
Maybe it was a serious health scare.
The health of a loved one.
The death of a loved one.
Maybe COVID-19 has made you feel boxed in.
Some of our brothers just like Jeremiah have faced persecution or imprisonment.
And that might be our lot before the end of the system of things.
But what will help you students, in fact all of us, during these critical last days
when we face personal trials or adversity, I invite you to open to Jeremiah chapter 32.
Let's consider a dramatic illustration in the life of Jeremiah.
Now Jeremiah is under lockdown.
Jeremiah 32, let's read verses 6-8.
Jeremiah said, the word of Jehovah has come to me saying,
Here, Hannah Mel, the son of Shalom, your uncle, will come to you and say,
Buy for yourself my field in Anathoth because you have the first right to repurchase it.
Verse 8, Hannah Mel, the son of my uncle came to me just as Jehovah had said into the court
yard of the guard and he said to me,
Please buy my field in Anathoth and the land of Benjamin for you have the right to take
possession of it and to repurchase it.
Buy it for yourself.
At that I knew that this was by the word of Jehovah.
What was Jehovah's instruction to Jeremiah?
Buy a field.
Buy a field right now with the Babylonians beating on the door?
Jeremiah might have thought, I need an escape plan, not a field of all places, Anathoth?
Where was Anathoth?
Well, Jeremiah knew exactly where it was just a few miles north northeast of Jerusalem.
He was born there into a priestly family.
Did he have pleasant memories of his past and Anathoth as a youth?
Very likely.
But now that was a distant memory.
More recently, men of Anathoth, possibly some of Jeremiah's own relatives, threatened
to kill him because of his prophesy.
Well, did Jeremiah obey in spite of any personal feelings he might have had?
Jeremiah always obeyed.
Even previously, when Jehovah told him not to take a wife or to have children, well,
what did he do in this situation versus nine and ten?
So I bought the field in Anathoth from Hannibal, the son of my uncle.
I weighed out the money to him, seven shekels and ten silver pieces.
When I recorded it in a deed, I fixed the seal called in witnesses and weighed the money
in the scales.
Jeremiah could have worked in the legal department.
Well, he carried out the legal transaction, the legal requirements of the transaction.
He recorded the transaction in two deeds, one sealed, one unsealed, complete transparency
in this situation.
Why did Jehovah ask Jeremiah to buy a field in Anathoth?
Jeremiah already had complete faith that, yes, Jehovah's Word would be restored.
When seven years had transpired, the Jews would return to their homeland.
But now, Jehovah reinforced Jeremiah's faith by giving something specific to think
about.
Jeremiah could imagine the time when buying and selling would again occur in Israel.
Well, was Jeremiah's faith well placed in Jehovah's promise?
Absolutely.
Ezra, later documented that 128 men of Anathoth were among the first group of those returning
from Babylonian exile, and Jehovah's Word always comes true.
Well, how might we, how might you buy a field in Anathoth?
Well, we're not expecting you to go out and purchase a piece of property and a place
called Anathoth.
No, we find a clue, though, in Hebrews chapter 11, Hebrews chapter 11, verse 1, faith is
the assured expectation of what it's hoped for.
The evident demonstration of realities that are not seen, the simple English Bible renders
this, faith is the title deed up to the things that we hope for.
And on most of us in special full-time service, we don't own property.
But we may have the title to a car.
What does that mean?
That means that that car, that vehicle, belongs to us personally.
Our faith is the title deed of good things to come.
A guarantee of future realities, Jeremiah had a title deed, we have a title deed of faith.
So how do we buy a field in Anathoth?
It's not a type, anti-type situation, it's just an illustration.
In the context of our discussion, it means we exercise faith in Jehovah's promises.
When facing a trial, we can search Jehovah's word for promises regarding the future.
And that gives us strength to keep on enduring.
For example, if we're facing a serious illness, God's word promises, no resident will say,
I am sick.
If we're grieving the death of a loved one, the Bible assures us there is going to be
a resurrection.
The trial doesn't disappear yet, but exercising faith in Jehovah's promises helps us to endure.
Now, there's something else that we can learn from that dramatic illustration in the life
of Jeremiah.
Back in Jeremiah 32, notice please, verses 13 through 15.
Jeremiah was inspired to write, he said, I now commanded Baruch in their presence, saying,
this is what Jehovah of Armies, the God of Israel says.
Take these deeds, this deed of purchase, the sealed one, and the other deed left unsealed
and put them into an earthenware vessel so that they may be kept for a long time.
For this is what Jehovah of Armies, the God of Israel says, houses and fields and vineyards
will again be bought in this land.
Jeremiah involved Baruch in the legal proceedings when he bought the field in Anathoth.
Jeremiah's faith influenced Baruch for the good.
We can almost hear the confidence and conviction in his voice.
This is what Jehovah of Armies, the God of Israel says.
Jeremiah used that expression, Jehovah of Armies, more than any other Bible writer.
It was like Jeremiah said, our God will certainly overturn the Babylonians.
These promises are real.
You can take them to the bank, they're not counterfeit, they're completely true.
What's the lesson for us?
Our faith can strengthen fellow believers.
A sister named Joyce, while she herself was fighting cancer, she made what she called
shot in the arm cards.
They were collections of Bible verses, pictures from our publications, quotes from theocratic
songs, or watched our articles, and she would give them to those in need of encouragement.
One of her favorites was Psalm 112, 7 and 8.
And there it says, he will not fear bad news.
His heart is steadfast trusting in Jehovah.
His heart is unshakable, he is not afraid.
In the end, he will look and triumph on his adversaries.
Sister Joyce had a lot of bad news in her life.
But her faith in Jehovah's promises was powerful.
Sadly Joyce lost her fight with cancer a few years back, but she bought a field in Anathoth,
and she will witness the fulfillment of Jehovah's promises.
Even now she's given us a shot in the arm, encouragement from Jehovah's Word strengthened
us with her faith.
And so dear Gilead students, what have we learned?
Faith is like a title deed of things hoped for.
Faith in Jehovah's Word helps us to endure trials and adversity.
Our faith can have a power effect on those around us.
So when faced with persecution, buy a field in Anathoth.
When faced with a grievous health problem, buy a field in Anathoth.
When grieving the loss of loved one, buy a field in Anathoth, and someday soon your faith
will be rewarded, you'll walk in that field when Jehovah's Word comes true.